# Effects of initial cloud thickness and seabreeze advection in the coastal Stratocumulus breakup process

Dissipation is an important feature of coastal Sc clouds; in comparison, marine Sc are more stable throughout the day. This difference lies in that coastal Sc are exposed to stronger surface heating than marine Sc, a process that warms the ABL quickly during the morning. Another special feature over the coast is the seabreeze, which continuously brings cooler air into the land, being able to dispute the warming effect of strong surface ﬂuxes. Previous studies indicate that initial cloud thickness, surface ﬂuxes, and seabreeze advection are important factors that control dissipation time. 
A lesser understood process occurs before Sc dissipation. The initially homogeneous cloud layer breaks into small cloud elements. This breakup process generates strong solar variability, and it has been conﬁrmed that top wind shear and decoupled states of the ABL can affect the time when the breakup occurs. However, there is little understanding in what causes the breakup, when it starts, how it can vary under the eﬀect of processes that matter
for dissipation, and how the variability of the cloud ﬁeld is related to the resulting solar variability.
In this work, we propose to investigate many of the questions posed above. Our main hypothesis is that there is a threshold for the onset of the Sc breakup. We will explore the conditions in which the breakup occurs for a variety of Large Eddy Simulations (LES), having a set of experiments where initial cloud thickness and seabreeze are varied. We will also compare different deﬁnitions of breakup time, and describe the spatial variability of the cloud ﬁeld during the breakup. To determine the different conditions to consider, an initial set of stable cloud thickness conditions will be determined. Then, ocean domain LES runs will be simulated, which are needed to recreate the seabreeze advection conditions. A historical survey of seabreeze will be conducted in order to design realistic variations of seabreeze, focusing on properties such as starting times and wind speed strength. We will conﬁrm the experiment setup by running the coastal domain simulations with seabreeze using a Mixed Layer Model, to avoid undesired behavior, and then run all the cases using LES, which can capture the Sc breakup in detail. Posterior analyses will compare the different breakup time alternatives based on cloud fraction, cloud thickness variability, and cloud object properties, and link them to the ABL conditions in which each of them occur. At this stage, we will be able to conﬁrm our hypothesis and quantify how the Sc breakup time and threshold change for the varied conﬁgurations of initial cloud thickness and seabreeze.

**Team**: Mónica Zamora Z. (PI)

**Funding**: FONDECYT iniciación 2021, grant nº11220918 
